Nighthawk  1.0 Install           Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 Jason Nunn (JsNO)
           | \                   Nighthawk is under the GNU
            \ Patch level        General Public License.
              Version            Adelaide, South Australia
------------------------

Synopsis

Nighthawk is a tribute to one of the most playable and contagious games
ever written- Paradroid by Andrew Braybrook. It was so good, it was worthy
of my attention span for 6 straight months, and was the subject of
conversion at school for many months as well. It was quite amazing seens
that i've never really been into "playing games", the only other game that
lifted my skirt was 3D-Wolfenstein (the pre-cursor to DOOM).

It all started when i was in year 10 (1987). A friend of mine gave me a
copy of Paradroid on a cassette tape (that was the common media for C-64's
among my friends at the time), and that was it!, i was hooked.

Nighthawk was named after the second ship (level) of the original game. It
was extremely difficult to get to this level. If you could slate the
Paradroid level AND Nighthawk level (let alone the other dozen levels),
you were very good, and would have been highly regarded among the
governing pimply faced C-64 evanglist aristocrary at my school. 


In October 92 (during the end of my degree i was doing at the time), i
attempted to write a Messydos PC game like this, but didn't have enough
technical knowledge about real times and PC's etc. Four years later, in
October 96, (about a ago), started working on this game. Over a period of
a year, i worked on it on and off, and now, at last it's complete. 


Nighthawk has been exclusively written for the Unix/Linux X-Windows GUI,
and have choosen it because it's the most popular, stable, and oldest GUI. 
Also, X-windows games are now very fashionable. Some say that
Linux/Xwindows is the game developers preferred choice! (i think i read
that in the Walnut Creek 1998 catalogue?), but i won't go that far yet
anyway ;). 


Enjoy..

:Jason Nunn
 Tuesday 15/12/97

                         *      *       *      *


Extra Information (not in the game scrolls)
-------------------------------------------

-This game requires lots of lateral thinking. Simply blasting everything
in sight is not going to get you very far (maybe the first and second ship
if you're lucky). You have to rely on transferring to higher order droids
inorder to conquer droids with more fire power than yourself or to go
through walls. You have to shoot smart. Hostile droids will always attack
with an equal or greater rate. With "head-on" shoot outs (that most
newbies will tend to do), it's only a matter of who has the bigger shields
and lasers who will win. Some droids are simply too risky to confront,
like 799's, and 9xx's. It's far better to transfer to them through a wall
(where you can't get shot at). In Ship "Zaxon" you are forced to confront
7xx's head on as there are so many of them. 

- On some ships, be selective with droids to destroy. You may need to
transfer back through a wall inorder to return to the place you started.

- As a general rule, if a 6xx is shooting at you, don't shoot back,
instead duck for cover, even if you sustain some hits doing it. Don't
stand your ground and fire back. However, with 7xx's & 9xx's, because of
their unpredictable behaviour and rapid fire power, the above tactic may
not work. 

- In the game you have to complete 10 ships. Below is a table of their
difficulties..

Ship          Type               Difficulty

Haldeck       Fleet Support      Very easy
Seafarer      Cargo Vessel       Moderate
Anoyle        Attack Frigate     Difficult
Esperence     Battle Cruiser     Tricky/Very difficult
Ophukus       Medical Frigate    Moderate (lots of 5xx's)
Mearkat       Scout Ship         Tricky/Difficult
Friendship    Destroyer Class    Tricky/Difficult (lot's of 6xx's)
Discovery     Scientific Frigate Difficult (lots of 8xx's)
Zaxon         Battle Cruiser     Tricky/Very difficult (lots of 7xx's)
Tobruk        Flag Ship          EXTREMELY difficult (but not impossible)


There is a systematic "nack" to completing the levels, and if people are
having difficulty, i'll publish a guide on how to complete each level.


- If you are sick to death of dieing at a particular ship, and having to
do the whole pattern again to get to the part do can't do, then use the
"-c <ship number 0-9>" switch to start off at a particular ship. Note that
scores will reflect this form of cheating though, and your high score
won't be authentic.


Install
-------

 - Assuming you've unzipped and untarred the distribution, go in and edit
the INSTALL_DIR setting in the Makefile.

 - type "make"

 - then "make install"

 - done.


Coming up!
----------

Here's what's to be added and what i intend to do..

- This version has no sound. I intend on adding sound support. I've had a
yarn with Vincent Voois <vvacme@worldonline.nl> and he said he would
supply some "old skool" style ram chip music if my play back routines
could do it justice ;). I've had a listen to some of his samples, and i
must say that he has captured the arpeggio/SID/C-64 style beautifully. 
I'll let you know how this unfolds ;).  Watch this space. 

- I intend to port it to FreeBSD, SunOS, Solaris etc (there's not a lot to
do anyway). 

- A svgalib port is possible, but don't hold your breath though. 

- I definately won't be porting it to Messydos or Winshit (not with a gun 
to my head).

- Maybe when i release the sound edition, i'll create an "extended" level
set.


Contact
-------

- My current email addresses are:

       jsno@dayworld.net.au
       jsno@stormfront.com.au

- There's also a discussion area in the Ozforum for people to actively
avoid ;):

      http://www.downunder.net.au/forum


- Read http://www.downunder.net.au/~jsno/ and look in
comp.os.linux.development.apps and comp.os.linux.announce for further
updates on Nighthawk. 

- You can write to me via my old snail address:

     Jason Nunn
     32 Rothdale Rd
     Moil NT 0810
     Australia

or my new Adelaide Address (i'll be staying here around about a year from
Oct 1997): 

     2/119 Nelson Rd
     Valley View SA 5093
     Australia

     Tel: 61 08 82640593

The number is available for people who wish to connact me about Nighthawk.
Please make sure you call at a reasonable hour (South Australian time). 

If you can, drop me a line and tell me what you think. I love feedback on
distributions i author.


Acknowledgements
----------------

- Thanks to Jim Leonard (trixter@hornet.org) for testing Nighthawk from
the very start... even though he's fairly useless at playing the game ;)


What's new?
-----------

1.0: Dec 97

 - Public release.


0p.0 - 0p.2: Nov - Dec 97

 - 0p.2 was a pre-release that i could to the Dec 97 LinuxSA meeting.

 - Development and several pre-releases to Jim and other people.
