(This file has been put together by Adrian Bridgett
<adrian.bridgett@poboxes.com> from the in-game scroller, INSTALL
instructions, an email Jason sent me and some stuff I wrote.)


Nighthawk - Paradroid Chapter II - The rescue from Vega
=======================================================

The Earth forces have just ambushed an enemy fleet transporting captured
Earth vessels bound for Vega. While crews were boarding these ships for
repairs, surviving Vegarian crew destroyed each ships warp core. This has
made the ships very radioactive, causing many of the droids on board these
ships to go 'rogue'.  Our last contact with the crew indicated heavy loss of
life. All attempts at contact or rescue have proved futile. We can only fear
the worst..

..However, we have depatched a Class 002 Paradroid. Improved over the 001
class, the 002 will teleport to each ship and annihilate all droids.


Game play
---------

The mission is simple- Slate all droids.

You start out as a 002 Paradroid. In the original game, you controlled a 001
Influence device. They differ in the way they control their hosts.  The 001
droid was basically a helmet that fitted over the host droids head, and
could control it for a certain length of time.  The 002 droid however
actually transfers it's programs over to the new host, effectively
'becoming' it, and destroying the old host it occupied.

There are good and bad points to this.  The good point is that you can
occupy the host droid for an unlimited length of time, the bad point is that
you are stuck with the new hosts weaponary, speed and shields.


Key Summary
------------

cursor keys - move
left click  - fire
right click - burst fire
space       - activate (lift, computer, boost)
t           - toggle transfer mode
s           - display status
p           - pause
q           - quit


Movement
--------

Use the cursor keys to move around each map. To open a door, either shoot it
(see below) or move into it. Doors will close after a short time.

To move around the ship, you must use the lifts (these look like squares
with a cross through them, you normally start on one). To use a lift, move
over it and press space. A map of the ship will appear, showing all the
lifts and a square dot which represents your droid. Press down until the
square is over the level you want to go to, and then press space to exit the
lift.


Attacking
---------

To shoot, click the left mouse button at the target you are aiming at. A
right mouse click does a burst fire which sprays shots in all directions.

The spin speed of a droid indicates how charged the shields of the droid is.
At full spin, the droid is fully charged. When a droid has less than 1/4
shields green lights flash, and when they have less than 1/8 shields red
lights flash instead. To recharge shields, move over a recharging point
(they have swirly bits in them) and press space.


Transferring
------------

You won't get very far in nighthawk unless you learn to transfer to
different droids. To transfer to a different droid, press "t" (white lights
will start flashing and you will be unable to shoot) then click on a nearby
droid (even one on the other side of a wall). The two droids will
"negotiate" (what a euphemism!) to see which one lives. During negotiations,
neither droid can shoot.

During the negotiations a bar will appear - the green part represents your
droid and the blue bar represents the enemy droid. The relative amounts of
these bars will change as the droids battle each other. When the bar has
turned one color, that droid wins. The negotiation will be broken off if the
two droids move too far apart.

As a general rule, don't negotiate with a droid that is more than two
classes above you - e.g if you are in a 423, negotiating with a 606 is okay,
but a 717 will probably kill you.


Status
------

Pressing "s" will display the number of shields you have left and the number
of droids left on the ship. When something interesting happens, a status
message will appear. Here are some:

shields=10      you have 10 shields left
droids=9        there are 9 droids left to kill
002 d 107       002 droid destroyed 107 droid
002 h 423(8)    002 droid hit 423 droid (who now has 8 shields left)
600 captured    started negotiating with 600 droid
lost contact    stopped negotiations (droids move too far apart)
boost=15(+3)    shields were reacharged by 3 to 15


Computers
---------

To find out information about your droid, go to a computer in the wall and
press space. Use the cursor keys to look at different droids, you can find
out:

Type    -  droid number
Name    -  title of the droid
Entry   -  "negotiation" skills
Height  - 
Weight  -  can it 
Brain   -  intelligence of the droid
Arm     -  weapon (armament)
Shield  -  current and maximum number of shields
Speed   -  how fast the droid can move
Attack  -  agressiveness of the droid


Scoring
-------

Recharging shields   -10
Hit droid            entry level
Destroyed droid      25 x entry level
Transferring         50 x entry level

You get points for hitting/destroying a droid even if it was another droid
that did the shooting!


Weapon types
------------
                   Speed  Damage    
Linarite         8      4         
Crocoite-Benzol  10     10        
Uvarovite        12     20        
Tiger-Eye Quartz 9      50        
                                    

Droid types
-----------
                                                        
0xx - Prototype Class              

These droids are prototype/ experimental class that vary in function
considerably. Approach with caution.

1xx - Cleaning Droids              

Mindless, slow, low shielded, unarmed droids that clean the ships. Harmless.

2xx - Logistic/Servant Droids      

Again, brainless droids that do various tasks.  These type can vary in
shield and Strength.  This class is harmless as well.

3xx - Messenger Droids             

Mindless, but very fast. Low shield rating, and are not armed.

4xx - Maintenance Droids           

Designed to repair the ships. Vary in shield and speed ratings. Sometimes
armed.

5xx - Medical Droids               

These droids have a high entry level, and are difficult to crack. All of
them are armed, but are not hostile. However, they will shoot at any droids
that attack them.

6xx - Sentinel Droids              

These droids 'guard' certain important area's of the ships like lifts, power
bays and other droids. They vary in shield rating, speed and fire power, but
all are armed and will attack.  Approach with caution.

7xx - Battle Droids                

This class of droid 'hunts'.  When confronted, any will attack.  They vary
in speed, shield rating and weaponary, but all are extremely dangerous.

8xx - Crew Droids                  

These are armed droids that control the ship.  These like the 5xx class are
not hostile, but will become hostile to any droids that attack them.  8xx's
are armed with Uvarovite lasers, and pack a rather powerful wallop.

9xx - Command Cyborgs              

Each ship will have one of these. They command the ships.  Extremely armed,
extremely shielded, often very fast, and very deadly.


Ships
-----

Ship          Type               Difficulty
-------------------------------------------
Haldeck       Fleet Support      Very easy
Seafarer      Cargo Vessel       Moderate
Anoyle        Attack Frigate     Difficult
Esperence     Battle Cruiser     Tricky/Very difficult
Ophukus       Medical Frigate    Moderate (lots of 5xx's)
Mearkat       Scout Ship         Tricky/Difficult
Friendship    Destroyer Class    Tricky/Difficult (lot's of 6xx's)
Discovery     Scientific Frigate Difficult (lots of 8xx's)
Zaxon         Battle Cruiser     Tricky/Very difficult (lots of 7xx's)
Tobruk        Flag Ship          EXTREMELY difficult (but not impossible)

To start at a particular ship, run nighthawk like this:

  nighthawk -c <ship-number 0-9>

Note that the high score table will treat this as cheating.


Game tips
---------

If possible, create 'friendly fire'. This is very easy to do.  Get inbetween
any two armed droids.  If one of them preemptively attacks, simply duck at
the last minute (if not, then just shoot at one). Their laser fire
will/should/hopefully hit the other droid. The other droid will then fire
back at the droid that accidently attacked it.  When the attacking droid is
hit, it will fire back at the droid firing at it....hence a shoot out will
occur. The result is either two destroyed droids, or one left staying with a
reduced shield.

Another good thing about friendly fire is that it's an excellent
distraction. Any 6xx,7xx, 9xx droids involved in one, won't be concerned
with you at all; they will be too busy blowing away their mate.

Always duck for cover when fired upon, and when you shoot a droid fitted
with weapons, be ready to duck for cover.  Don't just take it. Armed droids
will always return fire immediately with an equal or greater rate.

Get into the habit of firing a 4-6 round volley, then ducking behind a wall,
door, storage unit... or even another droid.  261's are excellent to hide
behind.  These droids are industrial cargo movers. Being heavy machinery,
they have a very high shield rating and can buffer many laser blows.
Medical Droids (5xx series) are another good example. Medical droids are
armed but passive.  They won't attack anyone unless fired upon.  When an
attack droid is firing at you, duck behind a medical droid.  If the
attacking droid hits the medic, then the medic will fire (one shot) back at
the attacking droid (yet another 'friendly fire' example). The 599 Surgeon
droids are fitted with the powerful Uvarovite lasers, and will cheerfully
sodomise any minor class 6xx's or 7xx's that accidently attack it.


Background
----------

Nighthawk is a tribute to one of the most playable and contagious games
ever written- Paradroid by Andrew Braybrook. It was so good, it was worthy
of my attention span for 6 straight months, and was the subject of
conversion at school for many months as well. It was quite amazing seens
that i've never really been into "playing games", the only other game that
lifted my skirt was 3D-Wolfenstein (the pre-cursor to DOOM).

It all started when i was in year 10 (1987). A friend of mine gave me a
copy of Paradroid on a cassette tape (that was the common media for C-64's
among my friends at the time), and that was it!, i was hooked.

Nighthawk was named after the second ship (level) of the original game. It
was extremely difficult to get to this level. If you could slate the
Paradroid level AND Nighthawk level (let alone the other dozen levels),
you were very good, and would have been highly regarded among the
governing pimply faced C-64 evanglist aristocrary at my school.

In October 92 (during the end of my degree i was doing at the time), i
attempted to write a Messydos PC game like this, but didn't have enough
technical knowledge about real times and PC's etc. Four years later, in
October 96, (about a ago), started working on this game. Over a period of
a year, i worked on it on and off, and now, at last it's complete.

Nighthawk has been exclusively written for the Unix/Linux X-Windows GUI,
and have choosen it because it's the most popular, stable, and oldest GUI.
Also, X-windows games are now very fashionable. Some say that
Linux/Xwindows is the game developers preferred choice! (i think i read
that in the Walnut Creek 1998 catalogue?), but i won't go that far yet
anyway ;).

Enjoy..

:Jason Nunn
 Tuesday 15/12/97

Maintainer note:  Quazatron (my favourite game for the Spectrum) was also
heavily based on Paradroid.


Upstream Contact Details
------------------------
                                    
  Postal: Jason Nunn                
          32 Rothdale Rd            
          Moil Darwin NT 0810       
          AUSTRALIA                 
                                    
   Email: jsno@dayworld.net.au or jsno@stormfront.com.au    
                                    
     WWW: www.downunder.net.au/~jsno
                                    
 OZForum: www.downunder.net.au/forum  (in the 'Unix_Programming' area)
                                    
     Tel: 61 08 82640593            

The telephone number is available for people who wish to contact me about
Nighthawk. Please make sure you call at a reasonable hour (South Australian
time).
